README.md, before:

# Meshtastic Bot

### Although this is based on https://github.com/pskillen/meshtastic-bot I have personalised it a lot to my own setup for commands, auto replies and automations etc

Meshtastic Bot is a Python-based bot for interacting with Meshtastic devices. It listens for messages, processes commands, and responds with appropriate actions. This guide is focused on helping you run the bot as-is, with minimal setup.

## Quick Start: Run with Docker

The easiest way to run Meshtastic Bot is using Docker. This method requires minimal setup and keeps your environment clean.

### 1. Prepare Your Environment

- Ensure you have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.
- Create a `.env` file in your project directory with the required environment variables:

```
MESHTASTIC_NODE_IP=your_meshtastic_node_ip
ADMIN_NODES=comma_separated_admin_node_ids
STORAGE_API_ROOT=https://meshflow.pskillen.xyz
STORAGE_API_TOKEN=your_storage_api_token from above site
# Optionally, you can upload to a second API as well
STORAGE_API_2_ROOT=your_storage_api_2_url
STORAGE_API_2_TOKEN=your_storage_api_2_token
```

### 2. Use This `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
services:
  bot:
    image: ghcr.io/pskillen/meshtastic-bot:latest
    container_name: meshtastic-bot
    restart: unless-stopped
    env_file:
      - meshtastic-bot.env
    volumes:
      - mesh_bot_data:/app/data

volumes:
  mesh_bot_data:
```

### 3. Start the Bot

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

The bot will now run in the background. Data will be persisted locally in the `mesh_bot_data` Docker volume.

---

## Native Installation (Advanced/Development)

If you prefer to run the bot natively (e.g., for development or customization):

1. **Clone the repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/meshtastic-bot.git
    cd meshtastic-bot
    ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. **(Optional) On Raspberry Pi:**
    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install libopenblas-dev
    ```
4. **Configure environment:**
    - Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the required values.
5. **Run the bot:**
    ```sh
    python main.py
    ```

---

## Usage

The bot listens for messages and responds to commands as a direct message. You can interact with it via supported Meshtastic channels.

### Supported Commands

| Command   | Description                                                   |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `!help`   | Displays a list of available commands                         |
| `!hello`  | Displays information about the bot                            |
| `!ping`   | Responds with "Pong!"                                         |
| `!nodes`  | Displays a list of connected nodes, stats, etc                |
| `!nodes totals` | Manually triggers a node count report                        |
| `!whoami` | Displays information about the sender                         |
| `!tr`     | Performs a traceroute to the sender (outbound & inbound)      |
| `!status` | Displays bot status and radio connection details              |

## Features

### Node Count Reporting
The bot monitors mesh visibility and provides automated reporting:
- **Scheduled Reports:** Every 3 hours, a status update is sent to Channel 2 (GregPrivate) with the current online node count.
- **Immediate Alerts:** If the visible node count drops to zero, the bot sends an immediate warning.
- **Manual Check:** Use `!nodes totals` to get an instant report via DM.

### Enhanced Connectivity (TCP Proxy)
The bot now includes a built-in TCP proxy to manage the connection to the Meshtastic node. This improves stability and allows for automatic reconnection if the radio connection is lost.

### Improved Logging
Messages received on named Group Channels (e.g., 'LongRange', 'PrivateChat') are now logged with their specific channel name, making it easier to track conversations across different mesh networks.

### Advanced Traceroute
The `!tr` command has been upgraded to show the full path:
- **Outbound:** The route from the bot to your node.
- **Inbound:** The route back from your node to the bot (if available).

---

## Extending the Bot (Development)

If you want to add new commands or responders, see the `src/commands/` and `src/responders/` directories. The codebase is structured for easy extension, but most users will not need to modify the code to run the bot.

- **Commands:** Add new command classes and register them in the command factory.
- **Responders:** Inherit from `AbstractResponder` to handle public channel messages.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.

Commit message:

Update README with Node-totals feature description
Added information about Node-totals feature in README.

README.md, after:

# Meshtastic Bot

### Although this is based on https://github.com/pskillen/meshtastic-bot I have personalised it a lot to my own setup for commands, auto replies and automations etc 

I am now working on Node-totals which I hope to be able to report the number of nodes my remote nodes can see.

Meshtastic Bot is a Python-based bot for interacting with Meshtastic devices. It listens for messages, processes commands, and responds with appropriate actions. This guide is focused on helping you run the bot as-is, with minimal setup.

## Quick Start: Run with Docker

The easiest way to run Meshtastic Bot is using Docker. This method requires minimal setup and keeps your environment clean.

### 1. Prepare Your Environment

- Ensure you have [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/) and [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installed.
- Create a `.env` file in your project directory with the required environment variables:

```
MESHTASTIC_NODE_IP=your_meshtastic_node_ip
ADMIN_NODES=comma_separated_admin_node_ids
STORAGE_API_ROOT=https://meshflow.pskillen.xyz
STORAGE_API_TOKEN=your_storage_api_token from above site
# Optionally, you can upload to a second API as well
STORAGE_API_2_ROOT=your_storage_api_2_url
STORAGE_API_2_TOKEN=your_storage_api_2_token
```

### 2. Use This `docker-compose.yaml`

```yaml
services:
  bot:
    image: ghcr.io/pskillen/meshtastic-bot:latest
    container_name: meshtastic-bot
    restart: unless-stopped
    env_file:
      - meshtastic-bot.env
    volumes:
      - mesh_bot_data:/app/data

volumes:
  mesh_bot_data:
```

### 3. Start the Bot

```sh
docker compose up -d
```

The bot will now run in the background. Data will be persisted locally in the `mesh_bot_data` Docker volume.

---

## Native Installation (Advanced/Development)

If you prefer to run the bot natively (e.g., for development or customization):

1. **Clone the repository:**
    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/yourusername/meshtastic-bot.git
    cd meshtastic-bot
    ```
2. **Install dependencies:**
    ```sh
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```
3. **(Optional) On Raspberry Pi:**
    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install libopenblas-dev
    ```
4. **Configure environment:**
    - Copy `.env.example` to `.env` and fill in the required values.
5. **Run the bot:**
    ```sh
    python main.py
    ```

---

## Usage

The bot listens for messages and responds to commands as a direct message. You can interact with it via supported Meshtastic channels.

### Supported Commands

| Command   | Description                                                   |
|-----------|---------------------------------------------------------------|
| `!help`   | Displays a list of available commands                         |
| `!hello`  | Displays information about the bot                            |
| `!ping`   | Responds with "Pong!"                                         |
| `!nodes`  | Displays a list of connected nodes, stats, etc                |
| `!nodes totals` | Manually triggers a node count report                        |
| `!whoami` | Displays information about the sender                         |
| `!tr`     | Performs a traceroute to the sender (outbound & inbound)      |
| `!status` | Displays bot status and radio connection details              |

## Features

### Node Count Reporting
The bot monitors mesh visibility and provides automated reporting:
- **Scheduled Reports:** Every 3 hours, a status update is sent to Channel 2 (GregPrivate) with the current online node count.
- **Immediate Alerts:** If the visible node count drops to zero, the bot sends an immediate warning.
- **Manual Check:** Use `!nodes totals` to get an instant report via DM.

### Enhanced Connectivity (TCP Proxy)
The bot now includes a built-in TCP proxy to manage the connection to the Meshtastic node. This improves stability and allows for automatic reconnection if the radio connection is lost.

### Improved Logging
Messages received on named Group Channels (e.g., 'LongRange', 'PrivateChat') are now logged with their specific channel name, making it easier to track conversations across different mesh networks.

### Advanced Traceroute
The `!tr` command has been upgraded to show the full path:
- **Outbound:** The route from the bot to your node.
- **Inbound:** The route back from your node to the bot (if available).

---

## Extending the Bot (Development)

If you want to add new commands or responders, see the `src/commands/` and `src/responders/` directories. The codebase is structured for easy extension, but most users will not need to modify the code to run the bot.

- **Commands:** Add new command classes and register them in the command factory.
- **Responders:** Inherit from `AbstractResponder` to handle public channel messages.

---

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please fork the repository and submit a pull request.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License.
